---
title: MetaProgramming
---

#### Synopsis

Analysis or transformation of one program by another program.

#### Syntax

#### Types

#### Function
       
#### Usage

#### Description

All programs have data as input and produce other data as output.
A typical example is a desktop calculator program:
after entering some numbers and operators, the program displays an answer.
For most programs the data are numeric (calculator, spreadsheet)
or textual (text editor, word processor).

A _metaprogram_ is a program that uses programs as data. Writing
metaprograms is called [metaprogramming](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metaprogramming).

A metaprogram has to be written in some programming language itself.
This is called the _metalanguage_.

The program that is manipulated by the metaprogram is called the _source program_ (also: _object program_)
and is written in the _source language_ (also: _object language_).

In some cases the metaprogram transforms the source program into a _target program_ in a _target language_. 

#### Examples

A ((Refactoring)) tool for restructuring Java code:

*  Metaprogram: the refactoring tool.
*  Metalanguage: in most cases Java.
*  Source program: the user's Java program to be refactored.
*  Source language: Java.
*  Target program: the refactored user's program.
*  Target language: Java.


A Java ((Compiler)):

*  Metaprogram: the Java compiler.
*  Metalanguage: in most cases Java.
*  Source program: the user's Java program to be compiled.
*  Source language: Java.
*  Target program: the code that is generated by the compiler.
*  Target language: instructions for the JVM (Java Virtual Machine) or machine code, depending on the hardware platform.


A tool to compute ((Software Metric))s of Java programs

*  Metaprogram: the metrics tool.
*  Metalanguage: varies per tool: Java, Rascal.
*  Source program: the user's Java program for metrics will be computed.
*  Source language Java.
*  Target program: the value of the computed metric.
*  Target language: number.

#### Benefits

#### Pitfalls

