src/org/rascalmpl/courses/Recipes/Basic/Hello/Hello.md, before:

---
title: Hello
---

#### Synopsis

Variations on the ubiquitous _Hello World_ example.

#### Syntax

#### Types

#### Function

#### Description

#### Examples

##  `hello` on command line 


We demonstrate hello via an interactive session with the Rascal system. First we get the prompt `rascal>` that shows that Rascal is ready for our input. 
Next, we import the library module [IO]((Library:module:IO)) since hello world requires printing. Rascal responds with the feedback `ok` so we know that all went well. Finally, we call `println` and proudly observe our first Rascal output!
```rascal-shell
import IO;
println("Hello world, this is my first Rascal program");
```

##  `hello` as function 


A slightly more audacious approach is to wrap the print statement in a function and call it:
```rascal-shell
import IO;
void hello() {
   println("Hello world, this is my first Rascal program");
}
```
When you type in a command and continue it on a new line 
the Rascal systems prompts you with `>>>>>>>` to 
indicate that more input is needed. Don't get scared by 
the `void (): void hello();` that you get back 
when typing in the hello function. The first 
`void ()` part says the result is a function that 
returns nothing, and the second part 
`void hello()` summarizes its value 
(or would you prefer a hex dump?).
Finally, we call the `hello` function and enjoy its output.
```rascal-shell,continue
hello();
```

##  `hello` as module 

The summit of hello-engineering can be reached by placing all the above in a separate module:

```rascal-include
demo::basic::Hello
```

This module should be placed in `<project dir>/src/demo/basic/Hello.rsc`.

Using this Hello module is now simple:

```rascal-shell
import demo::basic::Hello;
hello();
```

The `hello` function is by default visible outside the `Hello` module.
We could stress this by adding writing `public void hello() { ... }`.
Restricting visibility to the module itself can be achieved by adding the keyword `private`
to the definition of `hello`.

#### Benefits

#### Pitfalls

Commit message:

improved Hello and the shell printed toomuch

src/org/rascalmpl/courses/Recipes/Basic/Hello/Hello.md, after:

---
title: Hello
---

The "Hello" example shows where to put your code such that it can do _something_. In this
case all we do is print `Hello World...`. After you know where to put code such that it
can be executed, can replace the silly example with more useful things.

##  `hello` on command line, a.k.a. ((RascalShell))


We demonstrate hello via an interactive session with the Rascal system. First we get the prompt `rascal>` that shows that Rascal is ready for our input. 
Next, we import the library module [IO]((Library:module:IO)) since hello world requires printing. Rascal responds with the feedback `ok` so we know that all went well. Finally, we call `println` and proudly observe our first Rascal output!
```rascal-shell
import IO;
println("Hello world, this is my first Rascal program");
```

##  `hello` as function 

As the command above, a piece of code is not _reusable_. To be able to use some code again and 
again, the best way is to wrap it in a ((Declaration-Function)), and then call it:d call it:
```rascal-shell
import IO;
void hello() {
   println("Hello world, this is my first Rascal program");
}
```

When you type in a command and continue it on a new line 
the Rascal systems prompts you with `>>>>>>>` to 
indicate that more input is needed. 

Don't get scared by 
the `void (): void hello();` that you get back 
when typing in the hello function. The first 
`void ()` part says the result is a function that takes 
no arguments and 
returns nothing, and the second part 
`function(...)` is simplified print-out of the function-as-a-value 
that elides all of the details of how functions are represented in memory.

Finally, we call the `hello` function and we do this
twice to make point:
```rascal-shell,continue
hello()
hello()
```

##  `hello` in a module 

To have the `hello` function also for the future and to let it be used by others,
we will place it in a file. A Rascal file is called a "module":

```rascal-include
demo::basic::Hello
```

This module should be placed in `<project dir>/src/demo/basic/Hello.rsc`.

Using this `Hello` module is now simple:

```rascal-shell
import demo::basic::Hello;
hello();
```

The `hello` function is by default visible outside the `Hello` module.
We could stress this by adding writing `public void hello() { ... }`.

Restricting visibility to the module itself can be achieved by adding the keyword `private`
to the definition of `hello`. When other modules `import` this one, there you 
will not be able to invoke `hello`. 

#### Benefits

#### Pitfalls
