src/org/rascalmpl/courses/Rascal/Expressions/ConcreteSyntax/ConcreteSyntax.md, before:

# Concrete Syntax

.Synopsis
Concrete syntax is a notation for patterns that match parse trees and expressions that generate them.

.Index
` ( )

.Syntax

*  `(_Nonterminal_) `_sentence_``
*  ` `_sentence_` `


where each sentence is a string over the language generated from `_Nonterminal_`. This language is extended in the following way. Each non-terminal reachable `X` from _Non_-terminal has an added alternative to allow nested Rascal ((Patterns)) inside of concrete syntax fragments:

*  `syntax X = "<" Pattern p ">";`


.Types


.Function


.Details


.Description
A concrete syntax fragment allows the programmer to write patterns and expressions in the language that is currently analyzed, 
transformed or generated. The <<Concrete Syntax>> feature is derived from <<Syntax Definition>>s. 
For any non-terminal defined in a <<Syntax Definition>>, you may use <<Concrete Syntax>> to match or generate its parse trees.

.Examples

.Benefits

*  Easy notation for complex structures

.Pitfalls

*  Since Rascal currently has no type-checker, the disambiguation of concrete syntax fragments is done heuristically which may lead to surprises.
*  The disambiguation of embedded concrete syntax fragments may change in the near future.

Commit message:

converted more links to new syntax

src/org/rascalmpl/courses/Rascal/Expressions/ConcreteSyntax/ConcreteSyntax.md, after:

# Concrete Syntax

.Synopsis
Concrete syntax is a notation for patterns that match parse trees and expressions that generate them.

.Index
` ( )

.Syntax

*  `(_Nonterminal_) `_sentence_``
*  ` `_sentence_` `


where each sentence is a string over the language generated from `_Nonterminal_`. This language is extended in the following way. Each non-terminal reachable `X` from _Non_-terminal has an added alternative to allow nested Rascal ((Patterns)) inside of concrete syntax fragments:

*  `syntax X = "<" Pattern p ">";`


.Types


.Function


.Details


.Description
A concrete syntax fragment allows the programmer to write patterns and expressions in the language that is currently analyzed, 
transformed or generated. The ((Concrete Syntax)) feature is derived from ((Syntax Definition))s. 
For any non-terminal defined in a ((Syntax Definition)), you may use ((Concrete Syntax)) to match or generate its parse trees.

.Examples

.Benefits

*  Easy notation for complex structures

.Pitfalls

*  Since Rascal currently has no type-checker, the disambiguation of concrete syntax fragments is done heuristically which may lead to surprises.
*  The disambiguation of embedded concrete syntax fragments may change in the near future.
