src/org/rascalmpl/courses/GettingHelp/Browsing/Browsing.md, before:

---
title: Browsing Documentation
keywords:
  - help

---

#### Synopsis

Browsing the Rascal documentation

#### Description

All Rascal documentation has been indexed and cross-referenced 
and can be accessed via a single browser interface.

Suppose we want to learn about `while` statement in Rascal and 
the type `help while` at the command line. This will show the following
results (actual results may differ):

![]((search-results-while.png))

In the right pane you find the search results,
most relevant first (this happpens to be the
description of the `while` statement).
Each result consists of a clickable link and
a synopsis of the information to be found there.

In the top left corner, you find a search box
for new searches and the RascalTutor logo image:/images/rascal-tutor-small.png[width="40",heigth="40"] that
will bring you back to the Tutor home page.

All Rascal documentation is organized
in _courses_, each course consist of
a hierarchy of _concepts_.
The documentation for `while` is found in the
course named [Rascal]((Rascal))
and the complete name is [Rascal/Statements/While]((Rascal:Statements-While)).

There are other courses like [Help]((Help)) (this course)
and [Recipes]((Recipes)) and the search for while
found uses of while in various courses (like this one, since we are mentioning
`while` quite a lot).

Commit message:

fixing missing image links or removed

src/org/rascalmpl/courses/GettingHelp/Browsing/Browsing.md, after:

---
title: Browsing Documentation
keywords:
  - help

---

#### Synopsis

Browsing the Rascal documentation

#### Description

All Rascal documentation has been indexed and cross-referenced 
and can be accessed via a single browser interface.

Suppose we want to learn about `while` statement in Rascal and 
the type `help while` at the command line. This will show the following
results (actual results may differ):

![]((search-results-while.png))

(((TODO-this is not up-to-date)))

In the right pane you find the search results,
most relevant first (this happpens to be the
description of the `while` statement).
Each result consists of a clickable link and
a synopsis of the information to be found there.

In the top left corner, you find a search box
for new searches and the RascalTutor logo 
will bring you back to the Tutor home page.

All Rascal documentation is organized
in _courses_, each course consist of
a hierarchy of _concepts_.
The documentation for `while` is found in the
course named [Rascal]((Rascal))
and the complete name is [Rascal/Statements/While]((Rascal:Statements-While)).

There are other courses like [Help]((Help)) (this course)
and [Recipes]((Recipes)) and the search for while
found uses of while in various courses (like this one, since we are mentioning
`while` quite a lot).
