src/org/rascalmpl/courses/Rascal/Declarations/SyntaxDefinition/Disambiguation/Associativity/Associativity.md, before:

# Associativity Declaration

.Synopsis
Define associativity of operators

.Index
left right assoc non-assoc

.Syntax

*  `syntax _Exp_ = _Assoc_ _Label_ _Symbol~1~_ _Symbol~2~_ ...`
*  `syntax _Exp_ = _Assoc_ ( _Alt~1~_ | _Alt~2~_ | ... )`
*  `syntax _Exp_ = _Assoc_ _Symbol~1~_ _Symbol~2~_ ...`
 

Here _Assoc_ is one of: `left`, `right`, `assoc` or `non-assoc`. See <<Syntax Definition>>s on how to define alternatives and <<SyntaxDefinition-Symbol>>s.

.Types

.Function

.Details

.Description
Using Associativity declarations we may disambiguate binary recursive operators. 

The semantics are that an associativity modifier will instruct the parser to disallow certain productions to nest _at particular argument positions_:

*  `left` and `assoc` will disallow productions to directly nest in their _right-most_ position.
*  `right` will disallow productions to directly nest in their _left-most_ position.
*  `non-assoc` will disallow productions to directly nest in either their left-most or their right-most position.

When associativity is declared for a group of productions, e.g. `left ( _Alt_~1~ | _Alt ~2~_ | _Alt_~3~)`, then each alternative will be mutually associative to each other alternative _and itself_. If an alternative of a group defines its own local associativity, as in `left ( right _Alt_~1~ | _Alt_~2~ | _Alt_~3~)`, then _Alt_~1~ is right associative with respect to itself and left associative with respect to all others in the group. 

A finer point is that associativity has no effect on any other position than the left-most and right-most position (see also <<Disambiguation-Priority>>). This is to guarantee that associativity does not introduce parse errors. The following tables explain when an assocativity declaration filters given two productions `father` and `child` that share an associativity group.
|====
| If `left (Parent | Child)`      | Parent None: `E = "[" E "]"` | Parent Left-most: `E = E "*"` |Parent  Right-most: `E = "*" E` | Parent Both: `E = E "*" E`  

| __Child None:__ `E = "{" E "}"`  | No filter        | No filter            | No filter                     | No filter              
| __Child Left-most:__ `E = E "+"` | No filter        | No filter            | Filter under right            | Filter under right     
| __Child Right-most:__ `E = "+" E`| No filter        | No filter            | No filter                     | No filter      
| __Child Both:__ `E = E "+" E`    | No filter        | No filter            | Filter under right            | Filter under right     
|====

|====
| If `right (Parent | Child)` | Parent None: `E = "[" E "]"` | Parent Left-most: `E = E "*"` |Parent  Right-most: `E = "*" E` | Parent Both: `E = E "*" E`  

| __Child None:__ `E = "{" E "}"` | No filter        | No filter                    | No filter              | No filter              
| __Child Left-most:__ `E = E "+"` | No filter       | No filter                    | No filter              | No filter     
| __Child Right-most:__ `E = "+" E`| No filter       | Filter under left            | No filter              | Filter under left      
| __Child Both:__ `E = E "+" E`   | No filter        | Filter under left            | No filter              | Filter under left  
|====



.Examples

.Benefits

*  Short notation for common constructs in programming languages.
*  Removes ambiguity but can not introduce parse errors.
*  Allows the use of less non-terminals for the same expression grammar (typically only one), which makes parse trees simpler as well as the mapping to an abstract syntax tree more direct.

.Pitfalls

*  Please do not assume that Rascal's associativity declarations have the same semantics as SDF's associativity declarations.
*  Use of productions that are not both left and right recursive in an associativity group, although safe, is not very meaningful. We would advise to use the <<Priority Declaration>> relation such a case. For example:

|====
| Original associativity | Better written as priority 

|`E = left ( "+" E | E "+" E );` | `E = E "+" E > "+" E;` 
|`E = right ( "+" E | E "+" E );` | `E = "+" E > E "+" E;` 
|`E = left ( E "+" | E "+" E);` | `E = E "+" > E "+" E;` 
|`E = right ( E "+" | E "+" E);` | `E = E "+" E > E "+" ;`
|====

//

Commit message:

updated link syntax in documentation files to docusaurus and new tutor ((Notation))

src/org/rascalmpl/courses/Rascal/Declarations/SyntaxDefinition/Disambiguation/Associativity/Associativity.md, after:

# Associativity Declaration

.Synopsis
Define associativity of operators

.Index
left right assoc non-assoc

.Syntax

*  `syntax _Exp_ = _Assoc_ _Label_ _Symbol~1~_ _Symbol~2~_ ...`
*  `syntax _Exp_ = _Assoc_ ( _Alt~1~_ | _Alt~2~_ | ... )`
*  `syntax _Exp_ = _Assoc_ _Symbol~1~_ _Symbol~2~_ ...`
 

Here _Assoc_ is one of: `left`, `right`, `assoc` or `non-assoc`. See <<Syntax Definition>>s on how to define alternatives and ((SyntaxDefinition-Symbol))s.

.Types

.Function

.Details

.Description
Using Associativity declarations we may disambiguate binary recursive operators. 

The semantics are that an associativity modifier will instruct the parser to disallow certain productions to nest _at particular argument positions_:

*  `left` and `assoc` will disallow productions to directly nest in their _right-most_ position.
*  `right` will disallow productions to directly nest in their _left-most_ position.
*  `non-assoc` will disallow productions to directly nest in either their left-most or their right-most position.

When associativity is declared for a group of productions, e.g. `left ( _Alt_~1~ | _Alt ~2~_ | _Alt_~3~)`, then each alternative will be mutually associative to each other alternative _and itself_. If an alternative of a group defines its own local associativity, as in `left ( right _Alt_~1~ | _Alt_~2~ | _Alt_~3~)`, then _Alt_~1~ is right associative with respect to itself and left associative with respect to all others in the group. 

A finer point is that associativity has no effect on any other position than the left-most and right-most position (see also ((Disambiguation-Priority))). This is to guarantee that associativity does not introduce parse errors. The following tables explain when an assocativity declaration filters given two productions `father` and `child` that share an associativity group.
|====
| If `left (Parent | Child)`      | Parent None: `E = "[" E "]"` | Parent Left-most: `E = E "*"` |Parent  Right-most: `E = "*" E` | Parent Both: `E = E "*" E`  

| __Child None:__ `E = "{" E "}"`  | No filter        | No filter            | No filter                     | No filter              
| __Child Left-most:__ `E = E "+"` | No filter        | No filter            | Filter under right            | Filter under right     
| __Child Right-most:__ `E = "+" E`| No filter        | No filter            | No filter                     | No filter      
| __Child Both:__ `E = E "+" E`    | No filter        | No filter            | Filter under right            | Filter under right     
|====

|====
| If `right (Parent | Child)` | Parent None: `E = "[" E "]"` | Parent Left-most: `E = E "*"` |Parent  Right-most: `E = "*" E` | Parent Both: `E = E "*" E`  

| __Child None:__ `E = "{" E "}"` | No filter        | No filter                    | No filter              | No filter              
| __Child Left-most:__ `E = E "+"` | No filter       | No filter                    | No filter              | No filter     
| __Child Right-most:__ `E = "+" E`| No filter       | Filter under left            | No filter              | Filter under left      
| __Child Both:__ `E = E "+" E`   | No filter        | Filter under left            | No filter              | Filter under left  
|====



.Examples

.Benefits

*  Short notation for common constructs in programming languages.
*  Removes ambiguity but can not introduce parse errors.
*  Allows the use of less non-terminals for the same expression grammar (typically only one), which makes parse trees simpler as well as the mapping to an abstract syntax tree more direct.

.Pitfalls

*  Please do not assume that Rascal's associativity declarations have the same semantics as SDF's associativity declarations.
*  Use of productions that are not both left and right recursive in an associativity group, although safe, is not very meaningful. We would advise to use the <<Priority Declaration>> relation such a case. For example:

|====
| Original associativity | Better written as priority 

|`E = left ( "+" E | E "+" E );` | `E = E "+" E > "+" E;` 
|`E = right ( "+" E | E "+" E );` | `E = "+" E > E "+" E;` 
|`E = left ( E "+" | E "+" E);` | `E = E "+" > E "+" E;` 
|`E = right ( E "+" | E "+" E);` | `E = E "+" E > E "+" ;`
|====

//
